\acknowledgements

I am extremely grateful to the chair of my committee and my doctoral adviser, Judith Kelley, who was the best mentor I could have hoped for. Her patient guidance and support over the last four years were instrumental for shaping my very vague, fuzzy, and scattered initial ideas into a viable research agenda. Working as her research assistant gave me a front row seat to learning the art of rigorous research. I am also incredibly grateful for the support of my committee: Tim Büthe, Tana Johnson, Timur Kuran, and Giovanna Merli. Giovanna provided early assistance with the China case study; Timur provided much-needed theoretical grounding; and Tana has been an excellent mentor and a paragon of clear academic writing, and was a fortuitous late addition to my committee.

Tim's support was also critical—his regular meetings with his doctoral students were instrumental in keeping me on track in the early stages of writing, and I received helpful advice and suggestions from Cindy Cheng, Mercy DeMenno, Shahryar Minhas, and Shana Starobin. This dissertation also benefited from astute feedback from discussants and participants at several conferences, including ISA, APSA, ARNOVA, and smaller presentations at Duke and BYU. I'm particularly grateful for advice from Elizabeth Bloodgood, Andrea den Boer, Sarah Bush, Laura Henry, Dan Nielson, Amanda Murdie, Christopher Pallas, Aseem Prakash, Lisa Sundstrom, Joannie Tremblay-Boire, James Richter, and Eva Witesman. I'm also grateful for advice from Suparna Chaudhry, who serendipitously wrote her dissertation on an eerily similar topic. 

I'm indebted to everyone who helped with my fieldwork in London and Washington, DC, including Clare Doube, David Layton, Nicholas Piachaud, and the dozens of INGO staff I interviewed and worked with, and who must unfortunately remain anonymous.

I'm thankful for the support of so many friends and colleagues during my time at Duke, including Laura Bellows, Kristen Cooksey, Amy Finnegan, Bryan Groves, John Holbein, Adebola Olayinka, Chris Paul, Robbie Richards, Jennifer Shen, Sierra Smucker, Yulya Truskinovsky, and Danielle Vance-McMullen. Ken Rogerson's friendship and support was especially important. 

Finally (and most importantly), I am indebted to my wife Nancy and my children Rachel, Miriam, Benjamin, and Zoë (born in Durham). Nancy read and edited drafts upon drafts upon drafts of this dissertation—without her work, support, encouragement, and love, this dissertation would have never been written.